“Yer late, elf!” came the rough edge of a familiar 
voice. Bruenor Battlehammer walked up the back of his 
dead foe, disregarding the fact that the heavy monster lay 
on top of his elven friend. In spite of the added discomfort, 
the dwarf’s long, pointed, often-broken nose and gray- 
streaked though still-fiery red beard came as a welcome 
sight to Drizzt. “Knew I’d ifndy e in trouble if I came out 
an' looked for ye!"
—R. A. Salvatore, The Crystal Shard

Kingdom s rich in ancient grandeur, halls carved into the roots of mountains, the echoing of picks and hammers in deep mines and blazing forges, a commitment to clan and tradition, and a burning hatred of goblins and orcs—these com m on threads unite all dwarves.

Short and Stout
Bold and hardy, dwarves are known as skilled warriors, miners, and workers of stone and metal. Though they stand well under 5 feet tall, dwarves are so broad and compact that they can weigh as much as a human standing nearly two feet taller. Their courage and endurance are also easily a match for any of the larger folk. Dwarven skin ranges from deep brown to a paler hue tinged with red, but the most com m on shades are light brown or deep tan, like certain tones of earth. Their hair, worn long but in simple styles, is usually black, gray, or brown, though paler dwarves often have red hair. Male dwarves value their beards highly and groom them carefully.

Long Memory, Long Grudges
Dwarves can live to be more than 400 years old, so the oldest living dwarves often remember a very different world. For example, som e of the oldest dwarves living in Citadel Felbarr (in the world of the Forgotten Realms) can recall the day, more than three centuries ago, when orcs conquered the fortress and drove them into an exile that lasted over 250 years. This longevity grants them a perspective on the world that shorter-lived races such as humans and halflings lack. Dwarves are solid and enduring like the mountains they love, weathering the passage of centuries with stoic endurance and little change. They respect the traditions of their clans, tracing their ancestry back to the founding of their most ancient strongholds in the youth of the world, and don't abandon those traditions lightly. Part of those traditions is devotion to the gods of the dwarves, who uphold the dwarven ideals of industrious labor, skill in battle, and devotion to the forge. Individual dwarves are determined and loyal, true to their word and decisive in action, som etim es to the point of stubbornness. Many dwarves have a strong sense of justice, and they are slow to forget wrongs they have suffered. A wrong done to one dwarf is a wrong done to the dwarf’s entire clan, so what begins as one dwarf’s hunt for vengeance can becom e a full-blown clan feud.

D w a r f T r a i t s

Your dwarf character has an assortment of inborn abilities, part and parcel of dwarven nature. Ability Score Increase. Your Constitution score increases by 2. 

Age. Dwarves mature at the same rate as humans, but they’re considered young until they reach the age of 50. On average, they live about 350 years.

Alignment. Most dwarves are lawful, believing firmly in the benefits of a well-ordered society. They tend toward good as well, with a strong sense of fair play and a belief that everyone deserves to share in the benefits of a just order. 

Size. Dwarves stand between 4 and 5 feet tall and average about 150 pounds. Your size is Medium. 

Speed. Your base walking speed is 25 feet. Your speed is not reduced by wearing heavy armor. 

Darkvision. Accustomed to life underground, you have superior vision in dark and dim conditions. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. 

Dwarven Resilience. You have advantage on saving throws against poison, and you have resistance against poison damage. 

Dwarven Combat Training. You have proficiency with the battleaxe, handaxe, throwing hammer, and warhammer. 


Tool Proficiency. You gain proficiency with the artisan’s tools of your choice: smith’s tools, brewer’s supplies, or mason’s tools. 

Stonecunning. Whenever you make an Intelligence (History) check related to the origin of stonework, you are considered proficient in the History skill and add double your proficiency bonus to the check, instead of your normal proficiency bonus. 

Languages. You can speak, read, and write Com mon and Dwarvish. Dwarvish is full of hard consonants and guttural sounds, and those characteristics spill over into whatever other language a dwarf might speak. 

Subrace. Two main subraces of dwarves populate the worlds of D&D: hill dwarves and mountain dwarves. Choose one of these subraces.


Hill Dwarf 
As a hill dwarf, you have keen senses, deep intuition, and remarkable resilience. The gold dwarves of Faerun in their mighty southern kingdom are hill dwarves, as are the exiled Neidar and the debased Klar of Krynn in the Dragonlance setting. 

Ability Score Increase. Your Wisdom score increases by 1. 

Dwarven Toughness. Your hit point maximum increases by 1, and it increases by 1 every time you gain a level.


Mountain Dwarf 
As a mountain dwarf, you're strong and hardy, accustomed to a difficult life in rugged terrain. You’re probably on the tall side (for a dwarf), and tend toward lighter coloration. The shield dwarves of northern Faerun, as well as the ruling Hylar clan and the noble Daewar clan of Dragonlance, are mountain dwarves. 

Ability Score Increase. Your Strength score increases by 2. 

Dwarven Armor Training. You have proficiency with light and medium armor.
